---
layout: post
title: Ukemi
category: post
---

Posted verbatim from a post on JudoForum, useful distinction of forward ukemi (mae/zenpo?):

You seem to be confusing the use of a roll to practice a vertical breakfall, and a true-rolling breakfall. For vertical breakfall practice returning to your feet is just kind of an extra bonus that speeds up practice a bit.

You want to fall with your body extended, not balled up. This is the way you typically fall with judo throws which deliver you straight down to the ground (try rolling out of a harai goshi sometime). In this type of fall, to get up you do not tuck your leg underneath or allow your body to curl up. Rather you land in a good, extended ukemi position and then tense up you body and leg and look behind yourself. Your whole body will lurch right up. This sounds a bit goofy, but it prevents the habit of tucking legs, etc. that can be very detrimental when you are taking a vertical fall.

A “true” rolling breakfall, or roll-out (i.e with the leg tucked under to roll up) is more applicable to techniques that project you outwards when thrown, rather than vertically down to the mat. Many (most?) Aikido throwing techniques project uke outwards rather than straight down, so roll-outs are very popular among the Aikido set, and are generally what you see them doing. If you ever work out with an Aikido person you also have to be careful throwing them, because some of them do not really know how to deal with the type of vertical fall that Judo techniques typically deliver. They may not realize the difference, so don’t throw them too hard the first time.

To break the rolling breakfall into its most basic component, we have our students squat with their butts only a few inches off the ground. Put one foot forward, put the hand of the same side as the foot on the mat (palm down) with your fingers facing towards your body. Now do a slow motion roll-drop to your front knee, then bend and touch your shoulder, once your shoulder touches push off with your back feet and roll across your shoulders. You should feel the mat from one shoulder to the other. As you roll over, allow your legs to extend out and land in the side ukemi position.

Neither one of these types of breakfall are absoloutely right or wrong. They are most applicable to different situations. The majority of Judo throws are going to require a vertical-type breakfall. However, on hard surfaces a rolling type breakfall is going to beway easier on your body. The best thing is to know how to do both types and when to do them.